==================================
What’s new in 0.3.0 (Sep 05, 2024)
==================================


Adding gallery directives
=========================

Now, you can generate galleries directly using directives in documentation.
There are three gallery directives available:

- **base-gallery:** Create a base gallery.
- **gallery:** Create a total gallery in which base galleries serve as sections.
- **ref-gallery:** Create a gallery which items are all references to external
  files.

.. hint::
   - ``base-gallery`` and ``gallery`` directives will create ``toctree`` nodes
     automatically. They can be called multi-times in the same document.
     You can combine them to create more complex galleries.
   - ``ref-gallery`` directive can be used in your Python docs to display the related
     examples directly. Here is an example: :ref:`ref-gallery-directive-in-code-docs`.

Configuration variables
=======================

- Adding a new configuration variable ``myst_sphinx_gallery_files_config`` to
  specify the configuration for each file in the gallery.
- ``myst_sphinx_gallery_config`` now can left examples and galleries
  dictionaries be None, which will serve as a pure global configuration.

Deprecation
===========

In this release, we have changed the style of the gallery cards from
the ``Sphinx-Design`` to ``Sphinx Gallery``.

Therefore, ``toc_tree``, ``grid``, and ``grid_item_card`` now not suggested
to be used by user in the gallery configuration. It will only be internally
used by program.

Besides, the style parameters, like ``margin``, ``padding``, and ``gutter``
parameters in the :class:`~myst_sphinx_gallery.grid.Grid` and
:class:`~myst_sphinx_gallery.grid.GridItemCard` are deprecated. This can avoid
wired layout in the gallery cards with new style. Instead, we suggest to use
CSS to adjust the layout of gallery cards. More details can be found in the
:ref:`custom` section.
